What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

Initializing a repository tells git that this folder tree is a repository.
You need to do this so that git will respond to commands in this tree
as if it was a repository.
When you initialize git, it creates a hidden directory that contains files
necessary for git version control.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

The staging area only contains the changed files that you want to be part of the upcoming commit. It has value because it limits the number of files you have to look at when viewing a commit later, and it keeps you from
accidentally checking in an accidentally changed file (or new file) in the working area.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

You can use git status to see what changes are in the staging area. If you
made an error, you can reset the file you didn't mean to change.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

When trying out something that will take many commits. A branch would keep me
from modifying the mainline with something I may need to throw away, and it wouldn't change the main branch while I was working, so I could still fix
bugs in the main line.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Without the diagrams, the description is just a bunch of words. The diagrams show relationships, both within and among branches.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

It combines two (or more) branches into one. In the diagram, merging the lines
reflects a merging of the branches.

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

Pros is that you don't have to manually examine files that just change a single character or word or line.
Cons are changes that don't affect the same line may actually affect each other, breaking the code or doc.